THE LIST

1954 — [Tobor the Great](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/tobor_the_great) —
This science fiction film tells the story of a young boy, his grandfather, and
his best friend — who just so happens to be a robot — as they work together to
stay safe from the group of communist agents on their tail. Starring Charles
Drake and Karin Booth.

1956 — [1984](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0048918/) — In a dystopian world,
society is closely monitored by Big Brother, an omnipotent force for
government surveillance. One man breaks the rules by falling in love and must
pay a heavy price. Based on the novel by George Orwell.

1965 — [Alphaville](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alphaville_\(film\)) — A
secret agent goes to the futuristic city of Alphaville to find a missing
person and eventually stop the ruling dictator, professor von Braun, and his
sentient computer system, Alpha 60.

1967 — [Billion Dollar Brain](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0061405/) — In this
espionage thriller, Michael Caine stars as Harry Palmer, a former secret agent
who unexpectedly becomes involved with a frenzied Texas oil baron (Ed Begley)
working to eradicate Communism with a supercomputer.

1968 —  [2001: A Space
Odyssey](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0062622/?ref_=vp_back) — A group of
astronauts is sent on a mysterious mission alongside the AI supercomputer
H.A.L. 9000. What follows is an intense battle between man and machine,
resulting in a mystifying journey through space and time.

1968 — [Hot Millions](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/hot-millions-1968) —
Peter Ustinov plays an embezzler who bypasses a mainframe computer's security
system to pay invoices from his fictitious companies.

1969 — [The Computer Wore Tennis
Shoes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Computer_Wore_Tennis_Shoes) — Dexter
Reilly (Kurt Russell) fixes a computer during an electrical storm and gets
shocked. The computer's brain has fused with his, and he's a genius.

1969 — [The Italian Job](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/1038613_italian_job)
— A robber (Michael Caine) recently released from prison gets help from a
group of Britain’s most infamous computer hackers to steal gold bullion from
underneath the noses of the Italian police and mafia. One of the film’s most
famous scenes is a massive traffic jam caused by hacking the city’s traffic
control computer.

1970 — [Colossus: The Forbin Project](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0064177/) —
Massive computer systems from the U.S. — “Colossus” — and Russia — “Guardian”
— connect to each other. Nuclear war is threatened.

1971 — [Paper Man](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/paper_man) — Five bored
college students take advantage of a computer glitch and create a fictitious
person, but the prank backfires.

1971 — [THX 1138](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/THX_1138) — Set in a
futuristic, state-controlled environment, this film follows a man and a woman,
named THX 1138 and LUH 3417, respectively, as they instill a revolution upon
their strictly-governed and closely-watched society.

1973 — [Westworld](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/westworld) — For one
thousand dollars a day, guests of a futuristic theme park can visit
recreations of different time periods and experience their wildest fantasies
with lifelike androids. Pals Blane (James Brolin) and Martin (Richard
Benjamin) have chosen to visit Westworld and walk the lawless streets of the
American frontier. Their fantasies turn to terror, however, when a duel with a
robotic gunslinger (Yul Brynner) goes terribly wrong.

1974 — [The Conversation](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/great-movie-the-
conversation-1974) — Gene Hackman plays a surveillance expert using high-tech
equipment (back in the day) to spy on a couple he fears may be in danger.
Nominated for three Oscars.

1975 — [Three Days of the
Condor](http://www.slate.com/blogs/browbeat/2016/12/09/why_three_days_of_the_condor_is_the_christmas_classic_no_one_s_watching.html)
— CIA codebreaker Robert Redford tries to figure out why his own agency wants
him dead.

1977 — [Demon Seed](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0075931/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) —
This science fiction horror film tells the story of Proteus IV, a sentient
supercomputer made from artificial intelligence, who goes to incredible and
dangerous lengths to attempt to become human.

1982 — [Tron](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0084827/) — One of the earliest
hacking films. A computer engineer learns an executive at his company has been
stealing his work and is launched into the world of virtual reality.

1983 — [Brainstorm](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0085271/) — Researchers
Michael Brace (Christopher Walken) and Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher)
develop a system that allows the recording and playback of a person's thoughts
onto videotape. The project spins out of control when the technology is used
to explore intense sexual and near-death experiences.

* * *

* * *

1983 — [Superman III](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Film/SupermanIII)
— Richard Pryor plays Gus Gorman, a hacker who is caught skimming from his
company's payroll through a program he developed and is then blackmailed to
help turn Superman evil.

1983 — [WarGames](https://www.wired.com/2008/07/ff-wargames/) — High school
student (Matthew Broderick) hacks into a military supercomputer in this
classic and activates the U.S. nuclear arsenal, at a time when most people
didn’t know what hacking was.

1984 — [Cloak and
Dagger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloak_%26_Dagger_\(1984_film\)) — When
11-year-old Davey sees the murder of an FBI agent, the dying man hands him an
Atari video game cartridge with military secrets. With Dabney Coleman.

1984 — [Electric Dreams](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/electric-
dreams-1984) — Set in San Francisco, this science fiction romantic comedy is
about a love triangle between an architect, a cellist, and a personal
computer.

1984 — [Hide and Seek](https://letterboxd.com/film/hide-and-seek-1984/) — A
young computer enthusiast develops a kind of artificial intelligence program
named "Gregory P1." To ensure its survival, the computer contacts other
computers and begins to fight the humans. It also hooks into the mainframe
computer of a nuclear power plant.

1985 — [Brazil](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/brazil-1986) — When Sam
Lowry (Jonathan Pryce) gets involved in a case of mistaken identity, he’s
labeled as an enemy of the state by the powerful, technology-dependent
bureaucracy controlling his society. On a quest to rectify the wrong, Sam
meets the woman of his dreams, but, unbeknownst to him, she may be a
terrorist.

1985 — [Hackers: Wizards of the Electronic Age](https://youtu.be/zOP1LNr70aU)
— This documentary about the hacker community includes footage of interviews
with some of the programmers that created the PC revolution, including Steve
Wozniak, co-founder of Apple. Filmed at a hacker conference held in Sausalito,
Calif.

1985 — [Max Headroom](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0089568/) — This science
fiction drama tells the origin story of its eponymous character, Max Headroom,
an artificially intelligent, computer-generated television host. This film was
later repurposed to serve as the pilot for a British series of the same name.

1985 — [Prime Risk](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0087942/) — Computer-savvy
lovers scam Automated Teller Machines and plot to sink the Federal Reserve.

1985 — [Real Genius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Genius) — Two
teenagers working on a laser project at a prestigious engineering college
begin to question the true purpose of their work when the government steps in
with intentions to use their project as a military-grade weapon. Starring Val
Kilmer and Gabriel Jarret.

1985 — [Weird Science](http://www.tvguide.com/movies/weird-
science/review/122524/) — Teenagers Gary and Wyatt design their ideal woman on
a computer, and a freak electrical accident brings her to life in the form of
the lovely, superhuman Lisa.

1986 — [Ferris Bueller's Day Off](https://www.commonsensemedia.org/movie-
reviews/ferris-buellers-day-off?gate=1) — A high school student (Matthew
Broderick) who wants the day off breaks into his school's computer system and
changes grades and attendance records.

1987 — [Bellman and True](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellman_and_True) —
Computer expert Hiller (Bernard Hill) finds himself unemployed and is bribed
into stealing confidential computer information for a group of bank robbers.
He gets the job done but makes the mistake of thinking he’s seen the last of
the criminals; little does Hiller know they’ve tracked him and his son to
London.

1987 — [Terminal Entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_Entry) —
Picking up where War Games left off, this film tells the story of a group of
high school students who unknowingly hack into the network of a dangerous
terrorist organization under the impression they’re simply playing a game —
but the acts of terror caused by their actions are no joke.

1988 — [Defense Play](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094981/) — After her
father is mysteriously killed while working on a project for the U.S. Air
Force, Karen (Susan Ursitti) joins forces with Scott (David Oliver), and
together, the two computer-savvy students open their own investigation into
the murder.

1990 — [Circuitry Man](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/circuitry_man) — In a
dystopian society, narcotics come in the form of a microchip, heavily sought
after by Earth’s remaining inhabitants — two of whom are a bio-android and a
female bodyguard who, after stealing said microchips, find themselves being
tracked by a dangerous criminal.

1990 — [Demolition Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demolition_Man_\(film\))
— The year is 2032 in San Angeles, a utopian city created by the citizens of
Southern California. When a violent criminal breaks out and threatens the
societal peace, John Spartan (Sylvester Stallone) is awoken from 36 years
spent cryogenically frozen in ice to capture the fugitive, but he becomes
distracted when forced to adapt to the future society made up of voice-
controlled devices, autonomous connected cars, and more.

1990 — [Hardware](https://letterboxd.com/film/hardware/) — Starring Dylan
McDermott, this film — set in a post-apocalyptic America — follows a former
soldier who unknowingly gifts his girlfriend spare parts from a self-
rebuilding, murderous cyborg.

1990 — [The KGB, The Computer and Me](https://letterboxd.com/film/the-kgb-the-
computer-and-me/) — In 1986, Clifford Stoll, an astronomer turned computer
scientist, began working on a computer system at the Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratory. At the time, two accounting programs were responsible for charging
people for machine use. When Stoll discovered a 75-cent discrepancy in the
normally flawless programs, he began to investigate and eventually uncovered
an undocumented user named "Hunter." As he dug deeper, he realized that Hunter
had hacked into the system and installed new programs. His investigation
eventually led him and U.S. intelligence to the realization that Hunter was a
computer programmer who worked for the KGB.

* * *

* * *

1991 — [Terminator 2: Judgment
Day](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/terminator-2-judgment-day-1991) — A
cyborg protects Sarah Connor's teenage son John from another cyborg intent on
killing him.

1992 — [The Lawnmower
Man](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0104692/plotsummary?ref_=tt_stry_pl)
—Resembling “Frankenstein,” this science fiction horror film tells the story
of a scientist (Pierce Brosnan) and his experiment: a once-simple man (Jeff
Fahey) who, through the power of mind-enhancing medication and computer-
simulated training sessions, becomes a genius. But it isn’t long before this
experiment spirals out of control.

1992 — [Single White
Female](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/single_white_female) — A woman
(played by Bridget Fonda) advertises for a roommate. She soon discovers that
her new roommate is a hacker (Jennifer Jason Leigh) intent on stealing her
identity.

1992 — [Sneakers](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/sneakers-1992) — A Hacker
(Robert Redford) leads a team of experts who test the security of San
Francisco companies. They discover a black box that can crack any encryption,
posing a huge threat if it lands in the wrong hands… including rogue NSA
agents.

1993 — [American Cyborg: Steel
Warrior](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Cyborg:_Steel_Warrior) — When
a fleet of murderous cyborgs threatens the remaining life on Earth after a
nuclear war, two of the last humans join forces to save the future of their
race. A nail-biting battle ensues.

1993 — [Frauds](https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-
xpm-1993-09-22-ca-37712-story.html) — An insurance investigator (Phil Collins)
uses games and gimmicks to manipulate the lives of others, including a couple
who make an unusual insurance claim. He approves the claim but makes bizarre
demands as ransom.

1993 — [Ghost in the
Machine](http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9F0CE5DB1131F933A05751C1A965958260)
— A computer-powered MRI machine extracts a serial murderer’s soul, and
becomes a deadly technological weapon.

1993 — [Jurassic Park](http://jurassicpark.wikia.com/wiki/Dennis_Nedry) —
Seinfeld’s nemesis “Newman” (Dennis Nery) plays an IT guy who hacks his way
into a coup that involves him stealing dinosaur DNA to sell to the highest
bidder.

1993 — [Knights](https://www.moviefone.com/movie/knights/1019559/main/) — Set
in a futuristic world devastated by war, this science fiction thriller tells
the story of Gabriel (Kris Kristofferson), a cyborg, and Nea (Kathy Long), a
young girl, who — despite being an unlikely duo — team up against their
planet’s dominant, blood-thirsty army of cyborgs to save the human race.

1994 — [Disclosure](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0109635/) — Starring Demi
Moore and Michael Douglas, this thriller balances both the virtual and
physical worlds, telling the story of a senior executive at a technology
company who’s on track for a big promotion — that is, until his fate falls
into the hands of his ex-girlfriend, who is determined to revive their
relationship … with or without consent.  

1994 — [Plughead Rewired: Circuitry Man
II](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110851/) — The sequel to 1990’s Circuitry
Man follows a female FBI agent and an android named Danner as they track down
Plughead — a notorious criminal known for making and selling microchips that
promise an extended life to those who take them.

1995 — [Ghost in the Shell](http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/movies/la-et-
mn-ghost-in-the-shell-history-20170328-story.html) — In this animated Japanese
sci-fi epic, a cyborg policewoman and her partner hunt a cybercriminal called
the Puppet Master, who hacks into the brains of cyborgs to get information and
use it to commit crimes.  (Scarlett Johansson stars in a 2017 live-action
remake.)

1995 — [GoldenEye](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/goldeneye-1995) — James
Bond tries to stop a Russian crime syndicate from using a stolen space-based
weapons program and falls into the clutches of an evil genius who plans to
rule Earth from cyberspace.

1995 — [Hackers](http://www.wired.co.uk/article/what-we-learned-hackers) —A
teenage hacker is back on the scene seven years after being banned from
computers for writing a virus that caused the biggest stock exchange crash in
history. He and his friends must prove that a sinister superhacker is framing
them for a plot to embezzle funds from a large oil company with a computer
worm. With Angelina Jolie.

1995 — [Johnny
Mnemonic](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Film/JohnnyMnemonic) — A
computer chip implanted in his brain allows a human data trafficker (Keanu
Reeves) to securely store and transport data too sensitive for regular
computer networks. When he gets a valuable package that exceeds the chip’s
storage capacity, the mnemonic courier must deliver the data within 24 hours
or die. Assassins are intent on helping him do just that.

1995 — [Judge Dredd](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/judge-dredd-1995) —
Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone) is sent to a penal colony for a murder he
didn't commit. On his way there, he gets an unexpected sidekick when he
reunites with Herman "Fergee" Ferguson (Rob Schneider), a hacker he previously
busted for destruction of property.  

1995 — [The Net](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113957/) — A computer programmer
(Sandra Bullock) who lives a reclusive life is looking forward to time off
when she becomes aware of a conspiracy. Her vacation turns into a nightmare
when someone tries to kill her and her identity is stolen. She must prove who
she is while trying to figure out why someone wants her dead.

* * *

* * *

1995 — [Under Siege 2: Dark
Territory](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/under-siege-2-dark-
territory-1995) — Steven Seagal returns as ex-Navy SEAL Casey Ryback in this
sequel to Under Siege, which finds Ryback and his niece Sarah (Katherine
Heigl) on a train headed from Denver to Los Angeles. When the train is
hijacked by a psychotic computer genius and his fellow terrorist, who need it
for their plot to take control of a top-secret satellite, Ryback enlists the
help of a train porter (Morris Chestnut) to foil their plan.

1996 — [Independence Day](https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/independence-
day-producer-explains-hacking-scene-104676447332.html) — In an epic fight
against an alien race, computer expert David Levinson (Jeff Goldblum) achieves
a crucial win when he hacks into the fleet of spaceships coming toward Earth,
infecting them with a virus and putting a stop to the looming alien invasion.

1996 — [Lawnmower Man 2: Beyond
Cyberspace](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawnmower_Man_2:_Beyond_Cyberspace)
— On a mission for world domination, Jobe (Matt Frewer), a virtual reality-
based consciousness, is determined to hack into all the world’s computers, but
his plans are thwarted by Peter (Austin O'Brien) and Benjamin (Patrick
Bergin), whose unfaltering passion to save the world — and cyberspace —
inspires an all-out war.

1996 — [Omega Doom](https://www.amazon.com/Omega-Doom-Rutger-
Hauer/dp/B0892R2ZX6) — In a world dominated by violent cyborgs, there is
little-to-no hope for what’s left of humanity … that is, until one such cyborg
— Omega Doom — is struck in the head, causing his wires to short and recircut,
leading to a newfound interest in defeating his own kind.

1997 — [Masterminds](http://www.allmovie.com/movie/masterminds-v158632) — The
new security chief at a prestigious private school plans to even a score by
kidnapping several of the wealthy students and holding them for ransom. A
teenage computer hacker, expelled from the school for pulling pranks, thwarts
his plans.

1998 — [23](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0126765/plotsummary?ref_=tt_ov_pl) —
After an orphan invests some of his inheritance in a home computer, he begins
discussing conspiracy theories inspired by a novel on bulletin boards. He’s
soon hacking military and government computers with a friend. Based on a true
story.

1998 — [Enemy of the
State](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/enemy_of_the_state) — A lawyer (Will
Smith) isn’t aware that a videotape in his possession proves a congressman was
murdered for opposing surveillance legislation. When he becomes the target of
a corrupt NSA official and his life begins to fall apart, he enlists the help
of an ex-intelligence operative (Gene Hackman).

1998 — [Mercury Rising (Code
Mercury)](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/mercury_rising) — A renegade FBI
agent (Bruce Willis) must protect a 9-year-old autistic boy who has cracked
encrypted government code that was supposed to be unbreakable.

1998 — [Pi](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/pi-1998) — Is there a
mathematical key that can unlock the universal patterns in nature? If found,
can that key predict anything — even the stock market? A brilliant, obsessed,
and paranoid mathematician who barricades himself in a room filled with
computer equipment intends to find that key, but might go mad while doing so.

1998 — [Webmaster](http://www.allmovie.com/movie/webmaster-v186869) — In this
Danish sci-fi thriller, a powerful crime leader hires a hacker to monitor the
security of his computer operations. When someone else hacks into the
database, the webmaster must go to extremes to find him, or die within 35
hours.

1999 — [Entrapment](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/entrapment-1999) — An
undercover art investigator (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is intent on tracking down
and capturing a renowned thief (Sean Connery). They end up attempting a heist
together.

1999 — [eXistenZ](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/existenz-1999) — Computer
programmer Allegra Geller’s (Jennifer Jason Leigh) latest creation, the hyper-
realistic virtual reality game eXistenZ, takes a dangerous turn when a crazed
assassin becomes intent on destroying it. With help from Ted Pikul (Jude Law),
Allegra sets out to save the game, and her life.

1999 — [The Matrix](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-matrix-1999) — In a
dystopian future, humanity is unknowingly trapped inside the Matrix, a
simulated reality created by intelligent machines to distract humans while
they use their bodies as an energy source. A computer programmer / hacker
known as Neo (Keanu Reeves) discovers the truth and joins forces with other
rebels to free humankind.

* * *

* * *

1999 — [Office Space](http://www.imdb.com/videoplayer/vi3215851801) —They’re
supposed to be part of one big happy family, but three computer programmers
hate their jobs and their boss. They concoct a scheme to embezzle small
amounts of money from the high-tech company that employs them, but a mistake
results in a bigger theft than planned. With Jennifer Anniston.

1999 — [NetForce](http://www.scifi-
movies.com/english/short-0001703-netforce-1999.htm) — In the year 2005,
NetForce, a division of the FBI, is tasked with protecting the Net from
terrorism. A loophole in a browser allows someone to gain control of the
Internet and all the information it holds. Now the commander of NetForce must
stop him, as he also tracks down a killer.

1999 — [Pirates of Silicon Valley](http://www.cnet.com/news/revisiting-
pirates-of-silicon-valley-the-original-steve-jobs-movie/) — This biographical
drama about the development of the personal computer and the rivalry between
Apple Computer and Microsoft spans the years 1971 - 1997\. Noah Wyle portrays
Steve Jobs and Anthony Michael Hall stars as Bill Gates.

1999 — [The Thirteenth Floor](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0139809/) — This
science-fiction neo-noir film begins in 1999 in Los Angeles when the inventor
of a newly completed virtual reality simulation of the city in 1937 is
murdered. A computer scientist he has mentored (played by Craig Bierko)
becomes the primary suspect and begins to doubt his own innocence because of
the evidence against him. He eventually enters the simulation to unravel the
truth and realizes nothing is as it seems.

2000 — [Charlie's Angels](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/charlies_angels) —
Working for the reclusive millionaire Charlie ( John Forsythe), Angels Natalie
(Cameron Diaz), Dylan (Drew Barrymore) and Alex (Lucy Liu) take on the case of
a young high-tech genius (Sam Rockwell) who has been kidnapped. Part of the
action involves employing a variety of disguises and technological tricks to
enter a master computer's massively protected mainframe.

2000 — [Hackers in Wonderland](http://alchetron.com/Hackers-in-
Wonderland-69290-W) — This documentary on hackers in the United Kingdom and in
the United States includes interviews with prominent hackers who reveal what
drives them. The hackers include ColdFire, Phobos, and cyberjunkie.

2000 — [Takedown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NbgDMYy9mzM) — Also known as
“Track Down,” the controversial movie version of the manhunt for legendary
hacker Kevin Mitnick is based on the book by Tsutomu Shimomura, “Takedown: The
Pursuit and Capture of Kevin Mitnick, America’s Most Wanted Computer Outlaw –
By The Man Who Did It.”

2001 — [A.I. Artificial Intelligence](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0212720/) —
In this Pinocchio-esque tale, David (Haley Joel Osment) — a sentient,
artificially-created robot — wishes to become a real boy, longing for a
stronger connection with his human mother.

2001 —
[Antitrust](http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9C0DE7DA1F3AF931A25752C0A9679C8B63)
— When a college graduate (Ryan Phillippe) gets a job writing software at a
multi-billion dollar computer company, he has no idea that the founder (Tim
Robbins) and new mentor is hiding dark secrets. Is there anyone he can trust?

2001 — [The Code](https://cosmolearning.org/documentaries/the-code-story-of-
linux-2001/) — This documentary covers the first decade of GNU/Linux and
features some of the most influential people of the free software (FOSS)
movement.

2001 — [Freedom Downtime](http://cosmolearning.org/documentaries/freedom-
downtime-the-story-of-kevin-mitnick-2001/) — This documentary covers the
plight of convicted computer hacker Kevin Mitnick, from the standpoint that
Miramax misrepresented him in the film “Takedown.” It includes the story of
several computer enthusiasts who confront Miramax reps about their discontent
with aspects of the script, including the film’s ending.

2001 — [Revolution OS](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/revolution-os/) — The
history of GNU, Linux, and the open source and free software movements is
traced in this documentary. It features several interviews with prominent
hackers and entrepreneurs.

2001 — [The Score](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Score_\(2001_film\)) — An
aging safecracker (Robert De Niro) plans to retire, but his fence (Marlon
Brando) talks him into one final score, stealing one of Canada’s natural
treasures hidden in the basement of a Customs House. He joins forces with
another thief (Edward Norton) who hires someone to hack into the Custom
House’s security system, but things go wrong.

2001 — [Secret History of
Hacking](https://www.liveleak.com/view?i=2a1_1200433380) — The focus of this
documentary is [phreaking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phreaking), computer
hacking, and [social
engineering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_engineering_\(security\))
occurring from the 1970s through the 1990s. John Draper, Steve Wozniak, and
Kevin Mitnick are prominently featured.

2001 — [Swordfish](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/swordfish-2001) — A spy
named Gabriel (John Travolta) plots to steal a large fortune. He enlists
Ginger (Halle Berry) to persuade Stanley (Hugh Jackman), who spent two years
in prison for hacking an FBI program, to help. But what is Gabriel really up
to, and who or what is really behind the plot?

* * *

* * *

2002 — [Catch Me if You Can](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0264464/) — Frank
Abagnale is one of the world’s most respected authorities on forgery,
embezzlement, and secure documents. His riveting story provided the
inspiration for Steven Spielberg’s film starring Leonardo DiCaprio as Abagnale
and Tom Hanks as the FBI agent fast on his heels.

2002 — [Cypher](https://letterboxd.com/film/cypher/) — Morgan Sullivan (Jeremy
Northam) is an accountant turned corporate spy working for a global computer
corporation.  When a mysterious woman suggests his job isn't what it seems,
Morgan ascends into a complicated world of brainwashing, where he struggles to
maintain his true identity.  

2002 — [Half the Rent](https://mubi.com/films/half-the-rent) — Otherwise known
as Halbe Miete, this film follows a computer hacker (Stephan Kampwirth) who,
after the sudden death of his girlfriend, breaks into — and camps out at —
other people’s apartments when they’re not home. But when what started as a
temporary solution to homelessness becomes a dangerous obsession, will the
risk outweigh the reward?

2002 — [Minority
Report](http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9E02EEDA113BF932A15755C0A9649C8B63)
— It’s 2054 and a specialized Pre-Crime police department in D.C. stops crimes
before they are committed based on information from Pre-Cogs, three psychic
beings who channel their visions into a computer. When they accuse the unit
chief (Tom Cruise) of a future murder, he becomes a fugitive, hunted by his
own department.

2002 — [Storm Watch](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Storm_Watch) — A champion
player of virtual reality games must suddenly race against time to stop a
criminal mastermind who has stolen his identify from destroying the world with
a weather satellite. Also known as “Code Hunter.”

2002 — [Terminal Error](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/terminal_error/) — A
former employee of a major software company gets even with the president by
planting a computer virus on an MP3 and giving it to his son. His plan is to
crash the computer terminals, but the virus has a mind of its own and begins
to take out large portions of the city. Father and son must create their own
virus to stop the chaos.

2003 — [Code 46](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/code_46) — In a dystopian
world, citizens are forbidden to travel outside their cities without special
permits from the totalitarian government. When forged permits start to
circulate, William Gold (Tim Robbins) is tasked with investigating, finding,
and taking down the individual responsible, though he never expects to fall in
love with her.

2003 — [The Core](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Core) — After several
bizarre incidents across the globe, a geophysicist and scientists determine
that the planet's molten core has stopped rotating and that the magnetic field
will collapse within a year. They devise a plan to bore down to the core and
set off nuclear explosions to restart the rotation and enlist a hacker to
scour the internet and eliminate all traces of the pending disaster to prevent
worldwide panic.

2003 — [Foolproof](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/foolproof) — Kevin (Ryan
Reynolds) is part of a friend group with an odd hobby: they plan heists, yet
never carry them out despite being perfectly able to do so. But when their
plans fall into the wrong hands, the friends are thrust into the criminal
world as they’re forced to carry out a jewelry warehouse heist that was never
supposed to see the light of day.

2003 — [In the Realm of the
Hackers](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0UghlW1TsMA) — This documentary
reveals how and why two Australian teenager computer hackers, Electron and
Phoenix, stole a restructured computer security list in the late 1980s and
used it to break into some of the world’s most classified and secure computer
systems.

2003 — [The Italian Job](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-italian-
job-2003) — After a thief (Edward Norton) turns on his partners and gets away
with the gold they've stolen in a heist, his former team seeks revenge.

2003 — [The Matrix Reloaded](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-matrix-
reloaded-2003) — With the help of Neo (Keanu Reeves), Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne), Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), and other freedom fighters, more and
more humans have been freed from the Matrix and brought to Zion. But 250,000
machines are digging towards the stronghold and will reach them in 72 hours,
so they must prepare for war.

* * *

* * *

2003 — [Paycheck](http://www.thefilmfile.com/reviews/p/03_paycheck.htm) —
Michael Jennings (Ben Affleck) makes good money working on top-secret projects
and then agreeing to have his memory erased, until a payment of $92 million
for a three-year assignment is canceled. With his life in danger, he must get
help from a scientist (Uma Thurman) he doesn’t remember dating to figure out
the importance of seemingly random items.

2004 — [One Point O](https://letterboxd.com/film/one-point-o/) — Simon (Jeremy
Sisto), a young, paranoid computer programmer, finds himself on the receiving
end of a series of mysteriously empty packages. Little does he know these
deliveries are only the tip of a reality-bending iceberg that will change his
life forever.

2004 — [Paranoia 1.0](http://www.apocalypselaterfilm.com/2009/10/one-
point-o-2004.html) — A computer programmer receives mysterious empty packages
inside his apartment and tries to find out who’s sending them, why, and who he
can trust. Also known as “One Point O.”

2005 — [V for Vendetta](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/v-for-
vendetta-2006) — In a dystopian future, a tyrannical British government
imposes a strict curfew following the outbreak of a virus. An anarchist in a
smiling Guy Fawkes mask seeks revenge with the help of a young woman and hacks
into the television network to urge others to revolt against tyranny.

2006 — [Deja Vu](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/deja_vu) — Doug Carlin
(Denzel Washington) is an ATF agent working to capture the terrorist
responsible for a ferry bombing that killed hundreds. Using an advanced form
of surveillance technology, Doug travels back in time, on a mission to prevent
the crime, but his newfound obsession with one of the victims puts everything
at risk.

2006 — [The Departed](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0407887/) — Boston police
officer Billy (Leonardo DiCaprio) goes undercover to infiltrate — and take
down — the dangerous Irish gang tearing up his city, led by Frank Costello
(Jack Nicholson). Becoming consumed by his secret life, Billy loses sight of
his mission, though everything comes back into perspective when a career
criminal infiltrates and begins threatening the police department.

2006 — [Firewall ](http://www.commonsensemedia.org/movie-reviews/firewall)—
When his family is taken hostage, a security specialist (Harrison Ford) who
designs theft-proof computer systems for financial institutions must break
into his own system and steal millions of dollars to pay off their ransom.

2006 — [Hacking
Democracy](http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/02/arts/television/02hack.html) —
This documentary investigates allegations of election fraud during the 2004
U.S. presidential election. It follows Bev Harris, the founder of Black Box
Voting, a nonprofit consumer-protection group, and other citizen activists who
set out to uncover flaws in the voting system.

2006 — [In Ascolto](https://www.videodetective.com/movie/in-ascolto-33721) —
Also known as The Listening, this film takes inspiration from the mass
surveillance operations of the National Security Agency (NSA), chronicling the
experience of a spy (Michael Parks) working undercover to get on the inside of
a counter-listening station in the Italian Alps.

2006 — [Man of the
Year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_of_the_Year_\(2006_film\)) — A
satirical political talk show host (Robin Williams) runs for president and
gets elected with the help of fans who begin a grassroots campaign. It's later
revealed that his presidency was the result of a computerized voting machine
malfunction.

2006 — [The Net 2.0](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Net_2.0) — A young
computer systems analyst arrives in Istanbul to start a new job, but finds out
her identity has been stolen. She must catch who did it to get her life back.

2006 — [Pulse](http://horrorfreaknews.com/pulse-2006-review) — In this remake
of a Japanese horror film, a student is shocked when her boyfriend, a computer
hacker, commits suicide. Then she and her friends receive online messages from
him, asking for help. Another computer hacker must help her stop a
supernatural plague traveling through the network.

2006 — [A Scanner
Darkly](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2006/aug/18/animation.keanureeves) —
This computer-animated adaptation of Philip K Dick's 1977 sci-fi novel is set
in the near-future. The U.S.'s war on drugs, particularly a hyper-addictive
substance called D (for Death), prompts the enforcement of a police state that
uses numberless surveillance scanners.

* * *

* * *

2007 — [Bourne
Ultimatum](http://www.theguardian.com/film/2007/aug/15/paulgreengrass.mattdamon)
— Operative Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) teams up with an investigative reporter
to find the people who betrayed him, while a ruthless CIA official and his
team continue to track him down in the hopes of assassinating him before he
gets his memory back.

2007 — [Breach](http://www.chasingthefrog.com/reelfaces/breach.php) – This
docudrama is based on the events leading up to the capture of FBI Agent Robert
Hanssen, convicted of selling secrets to the Soviet Union. A low-level
surveillance expert gets promoted and assigned to work with Hanssen, unaware
that he is to find proof that he is a traitor.

2007 — [Every Step You Take](https://www.amazon.com/Every-Step-Take-Clive-
Bloom/dp/B001NQTRIG) — This documentary is an in-depth look at modern-day
Britain and its Orwell-esque levels of government surveillance. It explores
the pros and cons of CCTV, highlighted by commentary from notable experts in
the field.

2007 — [Live Free or Die
Hard](http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/27/movies/27hard.html) — As the nation
prepares to celebrate Independence Day, a disgruntled government security
agent launches an attack on America’s computer infrastructure. Veteran cop
John McClane (Bruce Willis) and a young hacker must help the F.B.I.’s cyber
division take him down.

2008 — [21](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/21_\(2008_film\)) — Six
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) students hack their way to success
— and millions of dollars — in Las Vegas casinos by counting cards until
casino enforcer Cole Williams (Laurence Fishburne) thwarts their plans. Based
on a true story.

2008 — [Download: The True Story of the
Internet](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/download-true-story-internet/) —
Told through personal accounts from the founders of Yahoo, eBay, Google,
Amazon, and many others, this documentary tells the story of how the internet
became what it is today.

2008 — [Eagle Eye](http://www.cinemablend.com/reviews/Eagle-Eye-3379.html) —
Two strangers, Jerry and Rachel, come together after receiving mysterious
calls from a woman they never met. She threatens their lives and family to
push them into a series of dangerous situations, controlling their actions
using cellphones and other technology.

2008 — [Hackers are People
Too](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/hackers_are_people_too) — Hackers created
this documentary to portray their community and break down negative
stereotypes. It describes what hacking is, how hackers think, and discusses
women in the field.

2008 — [Untraceable](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/untraceable) — Agent
Jennifer Marsh (Diane Lane) of the Cyber Crimes Division of the FBI in
Portland tries to track down a psychopathic hacker killing people online in
live streaming video. As his site gets more hits, victims die faster.

2008 — [WarGames: The Dead Code
2008](http://www.popmatters.com/review/wargames-the-dead-code/) — Is an
American teen hacker playing a terrorist-attack simulator game online a real
terrorist intent on destroying the United States? That’s what Homeland
Security believes and they set out to apprehend him.

2009 — [Echelon
Conspiracy](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/echelon_conspiracy) — When tech
whiz Max Peterson (Shane West) gets sent a mysterious cell phone in the mail,
he’s unsure of where it came from or what it is — until it starts sending
instructions on how to win at the local casino. But it isn’t long before Max’s
newfound luck puts him at the center of a dangerous government conspiracy
dealing with the world’s security cameras. Will he make it out alive?

2009 — [Eyeborgs](https://www.filmaffinity.com/en/film797409.html) — In the
aftermath of a major terrorist attack, government surveillance in the U.S. is
taken to the next level via robotic cameras called “Eyeborgs,” which track and
monitor all citizens for suspicious behavior. But when photographic evidence
from the Eyeborgs doesn’t line up with the facts in an ongoing murder
investigation, a federal agent starts to wonder, who’s really controlling
these cameras and what do they want?

2009 —
[Gamer](http://reflectionsonfilmandtelevision.blogspot.com/2010/04/cult-movie-
review-gamer-2009.html) — Controlled by a teenage gamer’s remote device,
death-row inmate Kable must battle fellow prisoners every week in a violent
online game. Can he survive enough sessions to gain his freedom, free his wife
from avatar slavery, and take down the game’s inventor?

2009 — [The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Girl_with_the_Dragon_Tattoo_\(2009_film\))
— A journalist searches for the killer of a woman who has been dead for forty
years, with the help of a young female hacker. When they unravel dark family
secrets, they must protect themselves. This Swedish language film was remade
in English in 2011.

* * *

* * *

2009 — [Hackers Wanted](http://topdocumentaryfilms.com/can-you-hack-it-
hackers-wanted/) — This unreleased American documentary originally named “Can
You Hack It?” follows the adventures of Adrian Lamo, a famous hacker, and
explores the origins of hacking and nature of hackers.

2009 — [Shadow Government](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/shadow-government)
— What impact does the technological landscape have on our daily lives? This
documentary, led by Grant Jeffrey, explores exactly how much of our lives are
being digitized and observed in the modern era.

2009 — [Transcendent
Man](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1117394/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — The subject of
this documentary from filmmaker Robert Barry Ptolemy is Ray Kurzweil,
inventor, futurist and author, and his predictions about the future of
technology, presented in his 2005 book, The Singularity is Near: When Humans
Transcend Biology. Ptolemy follows Kurzweil on his world speaking tour, where
he discusses his thoughts on the technological singularity, a proposed
advancement that will occur sometime in the 21st century due to progress in
artificial intelligence, genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics.

2009 — [We Live in Public](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/we-live-in-
public-2009) — Directed by Ondi Timoner, this documentary profiles Josh
Harris, "the greatest Internet pioneer you've never heard of." An early
dot.com entrepreneur, Harris founded Psuedo.com, an early streaming content
service. In 1999, he began an experiment called "Quiet," in which 100 men and
women agreed to give up their privacy to live together under constant video
surveillance, so their lives could be streamed online.

2010 —
[Inception](http://www.rollingstone.com/movies/reviews/inception-20100712) — A
thief (Leonardo DiCaprio) who can enter people’s dreams and steal their
secrets begins using his gift for corporate espionage. Can he also plant an
idea into someone’s mind? The film won four Oscars.

2010 — [The Social Network](http://newrepublic.com/article/78081/sorkin-
zuckerberg-the-social-network) — Jesse Eisenberg portrays Harvard student and
computer genius Mark Zuckerberg in this drama about the creation of a social
networking site that would become Facebook.

2010 — [Tron Legacy](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/10011582_TRON_legacy?) —
In this revamped Tron continuation, Sam (Garrett Hedlund) searches in and out
of the computer world for his father, Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges), a brilliant
computer programmer.

2011 — [Mission Impossible: Ghost
Protocol](https://wegotthiscovered.com/movies/missionimpossibleghost-protocol-
review/) — When mega-spy Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) is blamed for a terrorist
attack on the Kremlin, he and others from his agency, the Impossible Missions
Force (IMF), must prove their innocence.

2011 — [StuxNet:
Cyberwar](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1950374/?ref_=kw_li_tt) — First
discovered in 2010, the StuxNet computer worm marked the beginning of a new
era in cybercrime, attacking — and causing substantial damage to — an Iranian
nuclear program. This documentary explores the malware’s origins alongside its
contributions to the advancement of cyber warfare technology.

2012 — [Code 2600](http://thehackernews.com/2012/02/code-2600-hacking-
documentary.html) — This documentary explores the rise of the Information
Technology Age through the eyes of the people who helped build it and the
events that shaped it.

2012 — [Genius on Hold](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/01/movies/genius-on-
hold-on-walter-shaw-and-his-sons-crimes.html) — The downfall of Walter L.
Shaw, a telecommunications genius who became destitute, and his disillusioned
son, who became a notorious jewel thief, are the subjects of this documentary.

2012 — [Owned & Operated](https://letterboxd.com/film/owned-operated/) —
Using the lens of the internet, this documentary proves just how much we
matter … as consumers, that is. Society today practically lives for privileged
individuals — celebrities and politicians, among others — unknowingly adhering
to their wicked ways of gaining control, but there is an awakening on the
horizon, and it’s going to change everything.

2012 – [Panopticon](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/panopticon/) – Living in
the digital age, do we really have privacy? This documentary examines how much
our daily lives are controlled and watched by omnipresent surveillance, which
— as technology advances — has only become harder to avoid.

2012 — [Reboot](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2090594/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2) — A
young female hacker can’t remember a traumatic event that leaves her with an
iPhone glued to her hand. The phone’s timer is counting down to zero and
fellow hackers must help her solve the puzzle.

2012 — [Shadows of
Liberty](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B01EVX2YEQ/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_12)
— Should we trust the media? This documentary examines the five big for-profit
conglomerates that control 90 percent of U.S.-based media, raising questions
of who to believe in today’s political, economical, and social world.

2012 — [Skyfall](http://www.wired.com/2012/11/review-skyfall/) — James Bond
(Daniel Craig) must prove he still has what it takes as he tracks down the
source of a cyber-terror attack at M16 headquarters and goes up against a
genius hacker.

2012 — [Tracked
Down](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B01DQ20OY0/ref%3Datv_dp_cnc_0_0)
— Directed by Paul Moreira, this documentary explains how governments around
the world monitor their citizens through advanced electronic warfare equipment
— equipment that has fallen into the hands of repressive dictatorial regimes
in Libya, Syria and Bahrain. Moreira reveals how the technology can be traded
in stealth and traces these deals to their source.

2012 — [Underground: The Julian Assange
Story](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ujDD2LpSRg) — This Australian film
follows the early career of the WikiLeaks founder, from his start as a teenage
computer hacker in Melbourne.

2012 — [We Are Legion: The Story of the
Hacktivists](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/gina-hall/we-are-legion-
film_b_1975493.html) — Filmmaker Brian Knappenberger documents the hacking
group Anonymous, including interviews from group members.

* * *

* * *

2013 — [The Assange Agenda: Surveillance, Democracy and
You](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B0725YF1KQ/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_19)
— At what point does government surveillance put democracy at risk? According
to Julian Assange — founder of Wikileaks — we’re already there. This
documentary explores what may lay ahead for today’s digital world if we don’t
gain control over the various agencies spying on us.

2013 — [Big Data: The Shell
Investigation](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/big-data-shell-investigation/)
— In the digital age, a journalist’s sources are endless — when consulting big
data, that is. This documentary showcases how a team of journalists used
easily accessible channels, such as LinkedIn and Wikipedia, to piece together
the truth about Royal Dutch Shell’s two-billion-dollar debt to the Iranian
government.

2013 — [The Bling Ring](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/the_bling_ring_2013)
— Nicki (Emma Watson) and her fame-obsessed group of friends will do anything
to make a name for themselves in Hollywood, including breaking into — and
robbing — the homes of elite celebrities, which, if not for the internet,
would never have been possible.

2013 — [DEFCON: The
Documentary](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3010462/plotsummary?ref_=tt_ov_pl) —
The world’s largest hacking conference, DEFCON, has long since had a strict
no-camera policy … until now. This documentary follows the four days of
DEFCON’s 20th-anniversary event, highlighted by commentary from attendees and
staff.

2013 — [Disconnect](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alan-ravitz-md/disconnect-
movie-review_b_2981991.html) — Three intersecting stories center around the
impact of the Internet on people’s lives. The characters include a victim of
cyberbullying, a lawyer who communicates constantly through his cell phone but
can’t find time to connect with his family, and a couple whose secrets are
exposed online.

2013 — [DSKNECTD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DSKNECTD) — Do electronic
devices bring people together or pull them apart? This documentary examines
how human interaction has changed in light of the rise of technologies such as
cell phones, social media, and the internet.

2013 — [The Fear That Has 1000
Eyes](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B00GK8RZKY/ref%3Datv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_13)
— This documentary looks at various terrorist attacks — New York, London,
Madrid, and Oslo — and discusses how they have changed urban life, including
increased electronic surveillance. It also explores the balance between the
need for security and freedom.

2013 — [The Fifth Estate](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/18/movies/the-fifth-
estate-with-benedict-cumberbatch-as-julian-assange.html) — Based on real
events, the film begins as WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange (Benedict
Cumberbatch) and Daniel Domscheit-Berg join forces as underground watchdogs
and create a platform for whistleblowers to leak covert data to expose
government secrets and corporate crimes.

2013 — [Goodbye World](http://variety.com/2013/film/reviews/film-review-
goodbye-world-1200500453/) — More than one million cellphones simultaneously
receive a two-word message, followed by the collapse of the power grid and
widespread panic. A group of people who find shelter in a cabin soon find out
what it’s like to live in a post-apocalyptic world.

2013 — [Google and the World
Brain](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-reviews/google-world-
brain-sundance-review-414085/) —   The Google Books Library Project is
certainly ambitious, but is it feasible? This documentary examines Google’s
plan to open the world’s largest virtual library, as well as the many issues
that may stem from it, such as copyright infringement and lack of online
privacy.  

2013 — [Her](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/her-2013) — In this futuristic
story, a lonely writer ( Joaquin Phoenix ) develops an unlikely relationship
with an operating system designed to meet his every need.

2013 — [Identity Thief](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/identity-
thief-2013) — When a woman (Melissa McCarthy) steals the identity of Sandy
Patterson (Jason Bateman), a financial firm account executive, and wrecks his
credit rating, he sets out to confront her.

2013 — [In Google We
Trust](https://docuwiki.net/index.php?title=In_Google_We_Trust) — Who’s
keeping tabs on your data? This revealing documentary gives viewers an inside
look into how — and why — our digital interactions are tracked and recorded.
If you’re worried about the consequences, watch this now.

2013 — [Mickey Virus](http://variety.com/2013/film/reviews/film-review-mickey-
virus-1200769478/) — In this Bollywood hacker comedy, Delhi Police must seek
the help of a lazy hacker to solve a case.

2013 — [Terms and Conditions May Apply](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/mark-
weinstein/terms-and-conditions-may-_b_3692883.html) — This documentary exposes
how much the Internet and cellphone usage allows corporations and governments
to learn about people.

2013 — [TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away from
Keyboard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TPB_AFK) —This Swedish documentary
film, directed and produced by Simon Klose, focuses on the lives of the three
founders of The Pirate Bay — Peter Sunde, Fredrik Neij, and Gottfrid Svartholm
— and the Pirate Bay trial.

* * *

* * *

2013 — [The Value of Your Personal
Data](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/value-your-personal-
data/?__cf_chl_f_tk=1JrkoSXMBFWWdolAEKa0vycnv.bvLpObNy1ERuRi7II-1642539999-0-gaNycGzNCj0)
— Produced by the acclaimed VPRO series, this documentary discusses the
companies that collect your personal data, who buys it from them, how it is
used, and who owns it. It also gives advice on how you can gain back control
of it and stop being targeted and manipulated.

2013 — [War on Whistleblowers: Free Press and the National Security
State](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/war_on_whistleblowers_free_press_and_the_national_security_state)
— This documentary by Robert Greenwald highlights four cases — Michael DeKort,
Thomas Drake, Franz Gayl and Thomas Tamm — where American government employees
and contractors exposed fraud and abuse through the media at the risk of their
personal and professional lives.

2014 — [Algorithm](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3293462/) — A computer hacker
who specializes in breaking into secure systems, including the telephone
company and people’s personal accounts, hacks a government contractor and
discovers a mysterious computer program, thrusting him into a revolution.

2014 — [The Bureau of Digital Sabotage
](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/bureau-digital-sabotage/)— What is privacy?
This documentary argues it is nonexistent in today’s digital age, delving into
our new reality and its most crucial issues by asking citizens to stand up
when mass surveillance crosses the line.

2014 — [Citizenfour](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/citizenfour-2014) —
This documentary by Laura Poitras about whistleblower Edward Snowden and the
NSA spying scandal includes interviews of Snowden in Hong Kong in 2013 and
features work by journalist Glenn Greenwald.

2014 — [Digital Amnesia](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/digital-amnesia/) —
An in-depth investigation into the shelf life of digital data and the
vulnerable nature in which we store information today, featuring commentary
from organizations such as Internet Archive and The Archive Team.

2014 — [Ex Machina](https://www.metacritic.com/movie/ex-machina) — A young
programmer wins a competition that makes him the human component in a
groundbreaking experiment where he must evaluate the capabilities and
consciousness of Ava, a breathtaking A.I.

2014 — [The Hackers Wars](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/movies/the-hacker-
wars-a-documentary-about-prosecutions.html) — This documentary discusses
hacktivism in the United States, including the government’s surveillance and
persecution of hackers and journalists.

2014 — [The Human Face of Big
Data](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3312100/?ref_=ttfc_fc_tt) — This
documentary, directed by Sandy Smolan and narrated by Joel McHale, initially
focuses on Big Data’s positive aspects, such as how the massive gathering and
analyzing of data in real-time through a multitude of digital devices allows
us to address some of humanity's biggest challenges and improve lives
globally. It also highlights how the accessibility of this data comes at a
steep price.

2014 — [The Imitation Game](http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-
science/what-imitation-game-didnt-tell-you-about-alan-turings-greatest-
triumph/2015/02/20/ffd210b6-b606-11e4-9423-f3d0a1ec335c_story.html?utm_term=.40f1d7b07297)
— M16, the newly created British intelligence agency, recruits mathematician
Alan Turing (Benedict Cumberbatch) and his team to crack the Germany’s Enigma
code during World War II. Nominated for 8 Oscars.

2014 — [Inside The Dark Web](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/inside-dark-web/)
— Internet surveillance takes center stage in this documentary that details
the pros and cons of the World Wide Web. With all types of surveillance taking
place globally — government, commercial, and more — what does the future look
like for those living in the digital age?

2014 — [The Internet’s Own Boy: The Story of Aaron
Swartz](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-internets-own-boy-the-story-of-
aaron-swartz-2014) — Filmmaker Brian Knappenberger explores the life and work
of Reddit co-founder Aaron Swartz, a programming prodigy and information
activist who committed suicide at the age of 26.

2014 — [Killswitch](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4067162/) — In a world where
we rely so heavily on the internet, what happens if it comes under attack?
This award-winning documentary centers on the threat of internet censorship
and what we risk losing if we don’t fight back, such as free speech,
democracy, and innovation.

2014 — [Men, Women and
Children](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/men_women_and_children) — What does
it mean to be a parent in the age of social media? This film follows multiple
families, each with their own relationships to the internet, as they overcome
various challenges, including eating disorders and video game culture.

2014 — [Open Windows](http://film.avclub.com/open-windows-attempts-to-
disguise-a-revenge-movie-in-a-1798181831) — A blogger finds out he’s won a
dinner with an actress he devotes his website to and is disappointed when she
cancels. When he gets a chance to spy on her every move with his laptop, his
life gets crazy.

2014 — [The Signal](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-signal-2014) — Nic,
who is a student at MIT, is on a road trip with two companions when an
annoying computer hacker distracts them. They track him to an abandoned shack.
After strange occurrences, Nik wakes up wounded and disoriented, wondering
what has happened to his friends, and who are these people in space suits?

2014 —
[Transcendence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcendence_\(2014_film\)) —
Dr. Will Caster, renowned artificial intelligence researcher, is on a
controversial quest to create a fully sentient machine, but are the dangerous
consequences that follow worth it? This science-fiction thriller stars Johnny
Depp, Rebecca Hall, Morgan Freeman, and Paul Bettany, among others.

2014 — [Unfriended](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/unfriended-2015) — a
mysterious, supernatural force haunts a group of online chat room friends
using the account of their dead friend.

* * *

* * *

2014 — [Who Am I](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/review/who-am-i-no-
system-732510) — A subversive hacker group intent on gaining global fame
invites a young German computer whiz to join them.

2015 — [Big Data: Unlocking Success](https://www.radiotimes.com/movie-
guide/b-k27kes/big-data-unlocking-success/) — Experts from Berkeley Research
Group, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and Microsoft look into the use
of data science and its allied fields in this documentary, noting several
real-life examples, including events at Johns Hopkins University and MGM
Resorts International.

2015 —
[Blackhat](http://www.rollingstone.com/movies/reviews/blackhat-20150114) —
Convicted hacker Nicholas Hathaway (Chris Hemsworth) joins a team of American
and Chinese technical experts to track down a Balkan cyberterrorist operating
in Southeast Asia.

2015 — [Cyberbully](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/cyberbully) — In this
made-for-TV movie, A British teenage girl (Emily Osment) retreats from family
and friends when a computer hacker forces her to do his bidding, threatening
to leak compromising photos of her if she doesn't do what he asks.

2015 — [Cybertopia: Dreams of Silicon
Valley](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/cybertopia-dreams-silicon-valley/) — A
technological revolution is looming in Silicon Valley. This documentary
explores the future of digitized reality, as well as how daily life has
already changed as a result of the dedicated individuals residing in
California’s tech headquarters.

2015 — [Debug](http://horrorfreaknews.com/debug-2015-review) — Six young
hackers assigned to fix the computer system on a vessel drifting in deep space
become prey to an artificial intelligence source intent on becoming human.

2015 — [Deep Web](http://variety.com/2015/film/reviews/film-review-deep-
web-1201509033/) — Filmmaker Alex Winter interviews the people behind the Deep
Web and bitcoin and follows the arrest and trial of Ross Ulbricht (“Dread
Pirate Roberts”), founder of online black market Silk Road.

2015 — [Democracy: Im Rausch der
Daten](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5053042/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — From Swiss
director David Bernet, this documentary tells the story of how politicians in
the EU are working to protect society from the dangers of Big Data and mass
surveillance.

2015 — [Digitale Dissidenten](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-
reviews/digital-dissidents-digitale-dissidenten-montreal-819903/) — What price
do whistleblowers pay? Interviews with David Ellsberg, Edward Snowden, William
Binney, Thomas Drake, Annie Machon, and Julian Assange shed light on the cost
of having a conscience in the dark world of government surveillance.

2015 — [Furious 7](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2820852/) —Mr. Nobody (Kurt
Russell), a government operative, enlists Dominic Toretto to find a hacker who
has created God's Eye, a device that can hack any technology that uses a
camera. In return, they can use the device to find and stop Deckard Shaw
(Jason Statham), who is seeking revenge against Toretto and his crew for his
comatose brother.

2015 — [A Good
American](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4065414/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — This
documentary film tells the story of Bill Binney, former technical director of
the NSA, a group of exceptional code-breakers, and a program called
ThinThread, which, if not dumped three weeks prior to 9/11, would’ve been able
to stop the terrorist attacks that took almost 3,000 lives.

2015 — [Hacker’s Game](http://www.indiewire.com/2015/03/two-cyber-criminals-
fall-in-love-in-hackers-game-a-techno-thriller-171499/) — A cyber-detective
working for a human rights organization and a hacking expert with shady
connections meet on a rooftop and bond over a game of virtual chess. Will
their romance survive deception?

2015 — [Jobs vs. Gates: The Hippie and The
Nerd](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5288958/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — This
documentary tells the story of two of the biggest men in tech, Bill Gates and
Steve Jobs, and the spectacular rivalry between them. Despite landing on two
different sides of the battle between Mac and PC, Jobs and Gates' mutual
respect for one another endured the test of time.

2015 — [Mapping the
Future](http://amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B077QY1S56/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_7)
— Are our lives predictable? If you take the internet’s overflowing amount of
data into consideration, the answer is yes. This documentary explores how the
abundance of data gathered on the internet in recent years led to a
mathematical algorithm for human life.

2015 — [Terminal F/Chasing Edward
Snowden](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/terminal-f-chasing-edward-snowden/) —
This documentary discusses what motivated Edward Snowden, an NSA analyst-
turned whistleblower, to leak classified information about global surveillance
programs used by the American government, leading him to flee to Hong Kong and
later to Russia to evade authorities.

2015 — [The Throwaways](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4076980/) — Drew (Sam
Huntington) is an infamous hacker who is captured by the CIA for a slew of
cybercrimes. However, his impending jail sentence is renounced after the CIA
gives him an alternate option — work for them. Sam agrees, but on one
condition: he gets to build his own team.

2015 — [War for the Web](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2390367/) — Directed by
J. C. Cameron Brueckner, this documentary demystifies the physical
infrastructure of the internet and explores the issues of ownership and
competition in the broadband marketplace, privacy, and security.

2016 — [Anonymous](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/anonymous_2016/) — A young
Ukrainian immigrant turns to hacking and identity theft to support his
parents, with help from a friend who is a black-market dealer. Petty crimes
soon escalate. The film is also known as “Hacker.”

* * *

* * *

2016 — [Backlight:
Cyberjihad](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B074SV8HBK/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_8)
— Can social media become a weapon? This documentary examines jihadism and its
online presence, which, without any hindrance, has only grown larger over the
past fifteen years.

2016 — [Cyber War](https://www.amazon.com/Cyber-War-Linton-
Besser/dp/B077B7K2VM) — Hackers pose a universal threat; how can we defend
ourselves? This documentary explores how governments are building up
protection against the ever-growing number of digital threats, including by
recruiting those with the brains to wage cyberwar and espionage when
necessary.

2016 — [Data Center: The True Cost of the
Internet](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Center-True-Cost-Internet/dp/B074PFCZGJ)
— Every day, 247 billion emails are sent through the web. Have you ever
wondered what powers them? This eye-opening, high-tech documentary takes
viewers inside the digital warehouses that run the internet, otherwise known
as data centers.

2016 — [Down the Deep, Dark Web](https://documentaryheaven.com/down-deep-dark-
web/) — Venture down the internet’s rabbit hole into the secretive world of
the dark web, guided by crypto-anarchists, cypherpunks, and hackers. This
documentary will make you question everything you thought you knew about the
darknet.

2016 — [Gringo: The Dangerous Life of John
McAfee](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gringo:_The_Dangerous_Life_of_John_McAfee)
— Complex antivirus pioneer John McAfee made millions before leaving the U.S.
to live in a compound in the jungle in Belize. This Showtime documentary,
which he calls fiction, portrays his life in Belize and 2012 departure after a
neighbor was murdered.

2016 — [The Haystack](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/haystack/) — Due to
sophisticated hacking techniques and the terrorist organizations that often
use them, the British Parliament began reviewing the Investigatory Powers
Bill, legislation that would provide more leniency in the interception of
private email and phone communications. Prior to the bill passing in 2016,
this documentary examined how effective it would be, if it was necessary, and
what citizens would have to give up once the bill was implemented.

2016 — [I.T.](http://variety.com/2016/film/reviews/it-review-i-t-pierce-
brosnan-1201867640/) — Aviation tycoon Mike Regan (Pierce Brosnan) hires an
I.T. consultant on a temporary basis to do some work at his house and is so
impressed he gives him a full-time job. He’s fired when he oversteps
boundaries and seeks revenge against the businessman and his family.

2016 — [Jason Bourne](https://www.rollingstone.com/movies/movie-reviews/jason-
bourne-review-matt-damon-is-back-and-badass-251679/) — Former CIA agent Jason
Bourne (Matt Damon) is drawn out of hiding to uncover more about his past
while fighting cyberterrorism.

2016 — [Lo and Behold: Reveries of the Connected
World](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/lo-and-behold-reveries-of-the-
connected-world-2016) — Filmmaker Werner Herzog examines the Internet and how
it affects human interaction and modern society.

2016 — [National Bird](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5525310/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt)
— A chilling documentary in which three military veterans blow the whistle on
the secret U.S. drone war, highlighting America’s modern warfare program
through the harrowing experiences of those involved.

2016 — [Nerve](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/nerve_2016/) — Friends
pressure a high school senior to join the popular online game Nerve. She
becomes caught up in the thrill of the adrenaline-fueled competition,
partnered with a mysterious stranger, but the game takes a sinister turn.

2016 — [Offline is the New Luxury](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/offline-
new-luxury/) — Since the dawn of the internet, humanity has slowly but surely
become increasingly dependent on various smart devices — phones, tablets, and
laptops alike. This documentary asks one poignant question: what would the
world be without them?

2016 — [Rise of the Trolls](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5942298/) — Is being
anonymous a blessing or a curse? In this documentary, filmmakers Jonathan
Baltrusaitis and Paul Kemp explore the unnerving truths surrounding internet
anonymity, dark instincts, and freedom in cyberspace.

2016 — [Risk](http://www.theguardian.com/film/2017/jun/29/laura-poitras-
wikileaks-film-risk-julian-assange) — Laura Poitras spent six years making
this documentary about WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who gave her the
opportunity to closely film him but later tried to censor the film.

2016 — [Silicon Cowboys](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4938484/) — This
documentary tells the true story of how three unsuspecting friends became
computing pioneers by dreaming up the Compaq Computer — a portable PC that
would directly impact the future of computing and consequently shape the world
we live in today.

2016 — [Snowden](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/16/movies/snowden-review-
oliver-stone-joseph-gordon-levitt.html) — Joseph Gordon-Levitt stars as Edward
J. Snowden in Oliver Stone’s biopic of the former National Security Agency
contractor who becomes disillusioned with the intelligence community and leaks
classified information, becoming a fugitive from law and a hero to many.

2016 — [State of Surveillance](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/state-
surveillance/) — In this documentary film, Edward Snowden — infamously known
for leaking classified information from the National Security Agency — invites
viewers into the disturbing world of government surveillance. A must-see for
anyone who feels like they’re being watched.

2016 — [Stingray](https://www.radiotimes.com/movie-guide/b-vglruq/stingray/) —
This documentary enlightens viewers to just how advanced surveillance
technology has become, highlighting the Stingray, which, despite going by many
different names, has certified itself as one of the most powerful surveillance
devices of all time, though many see it as an invasion of privacy.

2016 — [What Makes You Click](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/what-makes-you-
click/) — Described as both a fascinating psychological study and a gripping
cautionary tale, this documentary from the VPRO Backlight series discusses how
companies adapt their websites and apps to get consumers to stay on them
longer and spend more money.

* * *

* * *

2016 — [Zero Days](http://www.rollingstone.com/movies/reviews/zero-
days-20160708) — Alex Gibney’s documentary focuses on Stuxnet, or “Operation
Olympic Games,” a malicious computer worm developed by the United States and
Israel to sabotage a key part of Iran’s nuclear program.

2017 — [AlphaGo](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/alphago/) — Can an AI
challenger defeat a legendary master in the game of Go? The battle between man
and machine takes center stage in this documentary film chronicling Lee
Sedol’s nail-biting match against AlphaGo, a computer program devised by Deep
Mind Technologies to master the 3,000-year-old game.

2017 — [The Circle](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-circle-2017) — Mae
(Emma Watson) lands a dream job at a technology and social media company
called the Circle. She is soon handpicked by the founder (Tom Hanks) to
participate in an experiment that takes transparency to a new level.

2017 — [The Crash](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-crash-2017) — The
government enlists a team of white-collar criminals to thwart a cyberattack
that threatens to bankrupt the United States.

2017 — [Facebook: Cracking the Code](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7373310/) —
What does Facebook know about you? This documentary digs deep into the
security issues that social media giant Facebook doesn’t want you to know,
including how they track browsing data, promote targeted ads, and spread false
information.

2017 — [The Fate of the
Furious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fate_of_the_Furious) — A
cyberterrorist known as Cipher (Charlize Theron) coerces Dom (Vin Diesel) into
working for her, hacks and takes control of cars, and reaps havoc.

2017 — [Ghost in the Shell](https://www.metacritic.com/movie/ghost-in-the-
shell-2017) — Major (Scarlett Johansson) is saved from a terrible crash and
cyber-enhanced as a soldier to stop the world's most dangerous criminals. She
soon discovers that her life was actually stolen and determines to recover her
past, find out who did this to her, and stop them before they do it to others.

2017 — [Kim Dotcom: Caught in the
Web](http://variety.com/2017/film/reviews/kim-dotcom-caught-in-the-web-
review-1202413013/) — This documentary tells the story of Megaupload founder
Kim Dotcom, a super-hacker, entrepreneur and notorious Internet pirate accused
of money laundering, racketeering, and copyright infringement.

2017 — [Meeting Snowden
](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B076VYN8T6/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_9)—
Edward Snowden, former CIA and NSA collaborator, has become infamous for
initiating one of the most controversial mass surveillance scandals of all
time. But who is he really? In this documentary, Lawrence Lassig and Birgitta
Jónsdóttir sit down with the whistleblower to discuss the future of democracy,
among other things.

2017 — [Nothing to Hide](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/nothing-hide/) — Do
we really have nothing to hide? This documentary takes an in-depth look into
government surveillance today and why the public seems to have unanimously
accepted the loss of their right to online privacy.

2017 — [Silk Road: Drugs, Death, and the Dark
Web](https://watchdocumentaries.com/silk-road-drugs-death-and-the-dark-web/) —
In 2011, Ross Ulbricht launched the anonymous darknet website, Silk Road. This
documentary explores everything the black market site had to offer, as well as
the events leading up to — and following — Ulbricht’s inevitable arrest.

2017 — [Stare Into The Lights My
Pretties](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7762882/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — Many of us
live behind a screen, but at what cost? This documentary examines why so many
people are addicted to their screens, all the while exploring the impact this
collective mindset may have on our future.

2017 — [Thoughtcrime](https://www.amazon.com/Thoughtcrime-Barack-
Obama/dp/B076H9Y9GC/ref=sr_1_3?crid=T4BWO69E1HQN&keywords=thoughtcrime&qid=1642105450&s=instant-
video&sprefix=thoughtcrime+%2Cinstant-video%2C99&sr=1-3) — Directed by Bernd
Riemann, this documentary compares the disturbing similarities between the
disclosures made by former CIA employee Edward Snowden in 2013 and the world
created by George Orwell in the dystopian science fiction film 1984, where
independent thinking was censored and holding thoughts opposing those in power
was considered a criminal act.

2017 — [Weapons of Mass Surveillance](https://www.docubay.com/weapons-of-mass-
surveillance-2185) — Directed by Elizabeth C. Jones, this documentary explores
the dangerous alliance of Western surveillance technology and Middle Eastern
governments who use that technology to monitor their citizens. It discusses
how high-tech cyber-surveillance enables governments to record, archive, and
analyze communications.

2018 — [Anon](https://www.theverge.com/2018/5/4/17317374/anon-review-netflix-
andrew-niccol-clive-owen-amanda-seyfried) — In a world where everyone’s lives
are transparent, traceable, and recorded by the authorities, causing crime to
almost cease, a detective (Clive Owen) tries to solve a series of murders that
may involve a mysterious hacker (Amanda Seyfried).

2018 — [Assassination
Nation](https://www.empireonline.com/movies/reviews/assassination-nation-
review/) — After an anonymous hacker leaks the private information of the
people of Salem, suspicion falls on four teenage girls who are targeted by the
community.

2018 — [Black Code](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/black_code) — Told
through accounts from exiled Brazilian activists, Syrian citizens, and Tibetan
monks, this documentary explores how governments across the world are
exploiting the internet to gain control over their people.

2018 — [Cam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cam_\(film\)) — Alice (Madeline
Brewer) is an exotic webcam performer whose life is turned upside down when
her channel — and livelihood — are stolen by a scarily accurate look-alike.
Determined to get her identity back, Alice sets out to unmask, and ultimately
take down, the mysterious hacker.

2018 — [The Cleaners](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7689936/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) —
Nothing stays on the internet forever. The web’s self-cleaning nature
dominates this documentary led by field experts, enlightening viewers to the
process of content removal, alongside asking one poignant question: who
decides what should, and should not, be seen?

2018 — [The Creepy
Line](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B08HVVC816/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_2)
— Google and Facebook take center stage in this documentary that depicts how
the social media platforms have perfected various manipulation tactics, all in
the name of gaining access to the public’s personal and private information.
Told through first-hand accounts, scientific experiments, and an in-depth
analysis.

2018 — [The
Defenders](https://www.prweb.com/releases/2018/05/prweb15469757.htm) —
Produced by Cybereason, this documentary invites viewers inside the world of
cybercrime, analyzing four of the most well-known cyberattacks throughout
history — highlighted by commentary from those working to protect our
institutions from the ever-changing cyber threat landscape.

* * *

* * *

2018 — [Digital
Addicts](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B07YVK24JG/ref=atv_dp_cnc_0_3)
— How much do screens affect children’s brain development? This documentary
follows a group of kids growing up in the digital age, highlighting the
harmful, hyper-addictive nature of social media platforms, mobile phones, and
more.

2018 — [Do You Trust This
Computer?](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/do_you_trust_this_computer) — Is a
smarter machine always a better machine? This documentary digs deep into the
dangers of artificial intelligence, highlighted by commentary from some of the
field’s most respected individuals, including Elon Musk.

2018 — [Edward Snowden: Whistleblower or
Spy?](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9116238/?ref_=tt_sims_tt_t_6) — In 2013,
Edward Snowden infamously leaked highly classified information from the NSA.
Five years later, this documentary looks back at the sensational time through
interviews with participants and witnesses, including some who are speaking
out for the first time.  

2018 — [The Feeling of Being
Watched](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/the_feeling_of_being_watched) — This
documentary is the result of journalist Assia Bendaoui's investigation into
rumors that the FBI has monitored her quiet, predominantly Arab-American
neighborhood near Chicago since the 1990s. Her research exposed one of the
FBI's largest counter-terrorism investigations before 9/11.

2018 — [General Magic](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt6849786/?ref_=vp_back)  —
This is the story of one of tech’s most influential and least memorable
companies. Featuring commentary from members of the original Macintosh team
alongside the creators of eBay, iPod, iPhone, and Android, this documentary
explores how General Magic created the first handheld personal communicator,
aka smartphone, and what happened after.

2018 —[ The Girl in the Spider's Web](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-
girl-in-the-spiders-web-2018) — Computer hacker Lisbeth Salander (who is also
an avenging angel for abused women) and journalist Mikael Blomkvist find
themselves caught in a web of spies, cybercriminals and corrupt government
officials.

2018 — [Hacked](https://dvd.netflix.com/Movie/Hacked/80239633) — After losing
his job to a state-of-the-art supercomputer, a disgruntled computer technician
decides to test his replacement. In the meantime, a group of hackers
infiltrates the building to steal the new technology.

2018 — [Inside Facebook: Secrets of a Social
Network](https://www.firecrestfilms.com/films/inside-facebook-secrets-of-the-
social-network) — Which is more important: money or morality? This eye-opening
documentary takes viewers inside Facebook’s moderating hub, demonstrating how
the social media company regulates harmful content, such as child abuse and
hate speech — although the results prove to be more concerning than
comforting.

2018 — [Inside the Russian Info War
Machine](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B07BKN2VVK/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_10)
— How does Russia undermine democratic governments, alter world events, and
manipulate public opinion? In this documentary, acclaimed journalist Paul
Moreira breaks down the Russian information war machine, including its hidden
weapon: the trolls and hackers pushing Russia’s agenda across cyberspace.

2018 — [Irumbu Thirai](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7179784/) — A cat and
mouse game for the digital age. After losing millions of dollars to a group of
cybercriminals, a soldier sets out on a quest to get back everything he lost.
Will his efforts be enough?

2018 — [Johnny English Strikes
Again](https://variety.com/2018/film/reviews/johnny-english-strikes-again-
review-rowan-atkinson-1202952089/) — After a cyberattack reveals the identity
of all of Britain's active undercover agents, MI7 agent Johnny English must
come out of retirement to find the mastermind hacker.

2018 — [King of Crime](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2018/nov/02/king-of-
crime-review) — Marcus King (Mark Wingett) was a well-known crime lord on the
streets … that is, until he brought his illegal empire to cyberspace. When
Islamic extremists threaten everything he’s built, the newly cemented king of
British cybercrime will do everything in his power to maintain his status.

2018 — [Ocean’s 8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ocean%27s_8) — On a mission
to pull off an impossible heist at New York’s renowned Met Gala, hacker 9Ball
(Rihanna) launches a spear-phishing campaign against an employee at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, gaining access to the museum’s security camera
system and giving her all-female crew the insight they need to successfully
steal one of the most valuable jewelry pieces in the world.

2018 — [Peripheral](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/peripheral) — This horror
film follows a successful young writer — Bobbi Johnson (Hannah Arterton) —
who, after experiencing writer’s block while writing her second novel, employs
an artificially intelligent software to finish her work. Little does Bobbi
know, she’s about to uncover a dangerous conspiracy of social control.

2018 — [Searching](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/searching_2018) — A man
becomes desperate when his 16-year-old daughter disappears and a police
investigation is futile. Hoping to find clues, he searches her laptop, scours
photos and videos, and begins contacting her friends.

2018 — [Unfriended: Dark
Web](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/unfriended_dark_web) — After a teen
finds a mysterious laptop, he invites several friends to play a game online.
The night turns deadly when they become the target of cyber-terrorism.

2019 — [BD2K: Big Data to
Knowledge](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8469780/?ref_=ttls_li_tt) — Told
through the stories of two patients battling disease in the information age,
this documentary film explores how big data has changed the way medicine is
practiced, as well as its effect on doctor-patient relationships.

2019 — [Cyber Crime](https://www.amazon.com/Cyber-Crime-10-Leading-
Experts/dp/B07VF7FLC2) — In this documentary, 10 leading cybercrime experts
discuss how billions of dollars a year are stolen or lost as a result of
cybercrime, destroying businesses and lives.

2019 — [Dataland](https://letterboxd.com/film/dataland/) — Living in a world
that’s practically run by AI, it’s hard to think we’ve only just scratched the
surface of what the technology is capable of — but it’s true. This documentary
explores what the world’s top data scientists are working on behind closed
doors.

* * *

* * *

2019 — [The Great Hack](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9358204/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1)
— This documentary examines the Cambridge Analytica scandal through the roles
of several people affected by it.

2019 — [HAK_MTL](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt10353560/) — Tech companies
claim to protect our privacy, but is it true? In this eye-opening documentary,
a group of Canadian hackers launch an investigation into the internet and how
it continues to track, store, and share users’ data, despite assurances that
it doesn’t.

2019 — [Hero or Villain? The Prosecution of Julian
Assange](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/hero-villain-prosecution-julian-
assange/) — Depending on who you’re talking to, the name Julian Assange will
provoke one of two feelings: fury or awe. This documentary, led by the ABC
Four Corners Team, chronicles an investigation into the founder of Wikileaks,
featuring commentary from some of the individuals who knew him best.

2019 — [Kee](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/tamil/movie-
reviews/kee/movie-review/69267305.cms) — Siddharth (Jiiva) and Shivam (Govind
Padmasoorya) share an affinity for hacking, but that’s all they have in
common. When the two unexpectedly cross paths, a fight between hacking for
good and evil breaks out — and the consequences are fatal.

2019 — [Machine Learning: Living in the Age of AI
](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/machine-learning-living-age-ai/)— How do we
interact with AI? The technology has cemented itself as one of the foundations
of our digital age, but has yet to reach its full potential. This documentary
examines what the future of artificial intelligence will look like and the
many possibilities ahead of us.  

2019 — [Official Secrets](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5431890/?ref_=kw_li_tt)
—  Katharine Gun made headlines in 2003 after blowing the whistle on an
illegal NSA spy operation. This drama film, starring Kiera Knightly and Matt
Smith, chronicles the scandal, as well as the ensuing legal battles that
uncovered top-secret manipulation tactics used by the highest levels of
government in both the U.S. and the UK.

2019 — [Password](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt10912588/?ref_=tt_sims_tt) — A
police officer hunts for a cybercriminal who is destroying people's lives by
hacking their passwords.

2019  — [The Secrets of Silicon
Valley](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/secrets-silicon-valley/) — Directed by
James Corbett, this documentary looks at the long and detailed history of
Silicon Valley, located in the San Francisco Bay area, including how it was
founded in the aftermath of World War II, the technology companies located
there that have shaped the world through innovation, the ties between
different companies and the government, and according to Corbett, the shadowy
underworld hiding beneath the surface and why Big Tech means big trouble.

2019 — [Third Eye
Spies](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5112424/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — Directed by
Lance Mungia, this documentary reveals how an experiment in psychic abilities
at Stanford Research Institute led to the CIA's study of psychic abilities for
more than 20 years for use in their top-secret spy program. Parapsychologists
Russell Targ and Dean Radin are interviewed, along with dozens of others,
regarding recently declassified information.

2019 — [Unfriends](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9464770/?ref_=ttpl_pl_tt) — In
this Bollywood thriller, Veer, who has an idea for a startup, receives a
Facebook friend request from Vijay, who becomes his investor. While on a long
celebration drive, they meet a girl named Mauli. When Vijay rapes her and
intends to kill her, Veer comes to her rescue and helps her escape. When she
is later subjected to abuse on the internet, Veer seeks justice for her.

2019 — [WannaCry: The Marcus Hutchins
Story](https://documentaryheaven.com/wannacry-marcus-hutchins-story/) — Marcus
Hutchins, a British computer researcher, became an "accidental hero" when he
discovered a kill switch in May 2017 that stopped the spread of WannaCry,
hours after the ransomware affected thousands of systems across the world.
Three months later, the FBI arrested him because of his involvement in a
banking trojan. This documentary, directed by Hugo Berkeley, is his firsthand
story.

2019 — [Who You Think I
Am](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/who_you_think_i_am) — A 50-year-old
divorced teacher (Juliette Binoche) uses a photo of a young, pretty blonde to
create a fake Facebook profile of a 24-year-old woman after being ghosted by
her 20-something lover.

2019 — [You Can't Watch This](https://letterboxd.com/film/you-cant-watch-
this/) — This independent documentary by George Llewelyn-John discusses
freedom of speech and the online world. It highlights stories of five
individuals who lose their access to social media and how that censorship
affects them.

2020 — [Archive](https://letterboxd.com/film/archive-2020/) — Roboticist
George Almore (Theo James) is working to create a true human-equivalent AI,
but when his focus turns to reuniting with his dead wife, Julie (Stacy
Martin), he finds himself reaping Dr. Frankenstein-worthy consequences.

2020 — [The Big Reset 2.0](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/big-reset-2/) —
Every day, AI grows more functional, intelligent, and capable of completing
even the most complicated tasks, but at what point does it become too much? In
this documentary produced by Germany's international broadcaster, Deutsche
Welle (DW), experts discuss the field’s ongoing battle between risk and
reward.

2020 — [Childhood 2.0](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt12945742/) — What does it
mean to be a child in the highly vulnerable digital age? Online predators,
cyberbullying, and mental health take center stage in this documentary that
delves into the real-life issues plaguing kids and parents today.

2020 — [Cyberlante](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt10063580/) — After getting a
job at an isolated hotel run by a cruel bully, Matt (Gavin Gordon) finds
himself at the center of a battle between hacking for good and evil.

2020 — [Enemies of the
State](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enemies_of_the_State) —  This American
documentary film follows Matt DeHart, targeted by the U.S. government for
having confidential documents alleging misconduct by the CIA.

2020 — [Interference: Democracy at Risk](https://www.radiotimes.com/movie-
guide/b-kfrbvq/interference-democracy-at-risk/) — In 2016, many new threats
against our democracy came to light, such as misinformation campaigns and
voter fraud, all of which wouldn’t be possible if not for the advanced,
digital age we live in. This documentary urges viewers to make sure it never
happens again.

2020 — [The Internet of
Everything](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B089NTCN5F/ref%3Datv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_6)
— This documentary discusses how the internet now invades every aspect of our
lives, through things beyond computers and phones — such as garbage cans,
refrigerators and city infrastructures. It also talks about the problems the
Internet has created and asks the question: will the future be a surveillance
nightmare or an eco-utopia. Who will determine the outcome?

2020 — [Julian Assange: Revolution Now](https://www.amazon.com/Julian-Assange-
Revolution-Ciaron-OReilly/dp/B08SBXMP18) — Overnight, Julian Assange went from
coder to convict. This documentary tells the story of the founder of Wikileaks
and how his mission to entrust the public with some of the most private
information made him an enemy of the United States government.

2020 — [Kill Chain: The Cyber War on America's
Elections](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kill_Chain:_The_Cyber_War_on_America%27s_Elections)
— Produced by HBO, this documentary examines the rising number of tech
vulnerabilities in the American electoral system, featuring an eye-opening
demonstration of how secure electronic voting machines are by hackers at
DEFCON, the world’s largest hacking conference.

2020 — [KnowBe4: The Making Of A Unicorn](https://youtu.be/W9UvWQJoRfE) — A
Cybersecurity Story. How CEO Stu Sjouwerman built a culture of fun and a
company worth $1 billion. With Chief Hacking Officer Kevin Mitnick. 23-minute
documentary produced by Cybercrime Magazine.

2020 — [No Safe Spaces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_Safe_Spaces) — What
does freedom of speech look like in the age of social media? In this
documentary, comedian Adam Corrolla and talk show host Dennis Prager travel
across America to explore what the future holds for the First Amendment.

2020 — [Out Of Dark](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7447946/) — Ever wondered
what it’s like to be a spy? This eye-opening documentary invites cameras on a
mission with a real-world intelligence operative,  giving viewers an in-depth
look into the top-secret world of foreign and domestic surveillance.

2020 — [Password](https://www.amazon.com/Password-Rahul/dp/B08D5WXGGC) — A
Saw-esque thriller in which an IT employee awakens to find himself tied to a
chair, surrounded by a dead body and a laptop. Discovering he’s been
kidnapped, the employee must find a way out, but will the financial imbalance
of India post-globalization get in his way?

2020 — [Screen Generation](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/screen-generation/)
— Gen X, Millennials, Gen Z … and then what? Following the generation dubbed
the “Digital Natives,” this documentary ponders what’s in store for the
children that grew up behind a screen. Researchers in the U.S. and Europe were
interviewed.

2020 — [The Social
Dilemma](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/the_social_dilemma) — This
documentary explores the dangerous human impact of social networking.

* * *

* * *

2020 — [Tenet](https://www.randori.com/blog/what-red-teams-can-learn-from-
christopher-nolans-tenet-spoiler-alert/) — In this action thriller directed by
Christopher Nolen, an organization called Tenet recruits an unnamed CIA
operative known as The Protagonist (John David Washington) for a mission
involving "time inversion" to counter a future threat and stop World War III.

2020 — [We Need to Talk About A.I.
](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/we_need_to_talk_about_ai)— Director Leanne
Pooley takes a close look at the future of artificial intelligence and the
impact it will have on the world, including how computers will have the
capacity to design and program themselves as they continue to evolve.

2021 — [Chakra](https://letterboxd.com/film/chakra-2021/) — Military officer
Chandru (Vishal Krishna) is one of fifty people who are robbed on Independence
Day. After he discovers his most prized possession was stolen, Chandru joins
forces with a police officer to hunt down the dangerous cybercriminal
responsible.

2021 — [Cryptopia: Bitcoin, Blockchains, And The Future Of The
Internet](https://www.radiotimes.com/movie-guide/b-sx9wct/cryptopia-bitcoin-
and-the-future-of-the-internet/) — Filmmaker Torsten Hoffmannn’s eye-opening
look into the world of cryptocurrency and the controversy surrounding it,
featuring commentary from some of the industry’s major players.  

2021 — [Dark Web: Cicada 3301](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8110246/) — After
visiting the dark web, Connor (Jack Kesy), a gifted hacker, is invited to join
the mysterious secret society Cicada 3301. He accepts and soon finds himself
embroiled in an intense, high-stakes race against the NSA. Based on real-life
events.

2021 —[Dark Web: Fighting
Cybercrime](https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B08MB6F8VL/ref=atv_dp_amz_det_c_UTPsmN_1_16)
— The fight against cybercrime takes center stage in this documentary
highlighting the security industry and its ceaseless determination to defend
against the growing number of digital threats.

2021 — [Dear Hacker](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/dear_hacker) — What
happens when your webcam goes rogue? The directorial debut of French filmmaker
Alice Lenay, this documentary is a must-watch for anyone who’s ever wondered
about the inner workings of a webcam.

2021 — [MY.DOOM: Earth's Deadliest [Computer] Virus
](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/my-doom-earths-deadliest-computer-virus/) —
First seen in 2004, MyDoom is universally acknowledged as the worst computer
virus of all time, having caused over $38 billion in losses. This documentary
explores MyDoom’s origins and chaotic run, all the while making an argument
for just how essential white hat hackers really are.

2021 — [Hacker Fairies](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt13073412/) — A short
drama that follows two white hat hackers on a mission to retrieve stolen
photos of several women. Not long into the search, one of the women asks to
learn more about hacking. Can she be trusted?

2021 — [Hacker: Trust No One](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt15135004/) **—**
When Danny cofounds a new cryptocurrency, he thinks it will make him rich.
When he gets caught hacking, though, he and his girlfriend end up on a hit
list instead.

2021 — [Love Hard](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/love_hard) — A columnist,
who writes about her bad dating experiences, thinks she has met her perfect
match on a dating app. When she flies across country to surprise him for
Christmas, she learns she's been catfished.

2021 — [The Perfect Weapon](https://www.amazon.com/Perfect-Weapon-David-
Sanger/dp/B08L7FKH6M/ref%3Dsr_1_4?dchild=1&keywords=cybersecurity%2B2021%2Bmovies&qid=1633377007&s=instant-
video&sr=1-4) — Based on a best-selling book by _  New York Times _national
security correspondent David E. Sanger, this documentary explores the rise of
cyber conflict as the primary way nations now compete with and sabotage one
another. ‌Directed by John Maggio, it features interviews with top military,
intelligence, and political officials on the frontlines of cyberterrorism.

2021 — [Silk Road](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/silk-road-movie-
review-2021) — Directed by Tiller Russell, this is the story of the anonymous
dark web market launched by Ross Ulbricht in early 2011. Ulbricht was jailed
for life after an FBI operation shut down Silk Road.

2021 — [The Mitchells vs The
Machines](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/the_mitchells_vs_the_machines) —
Starring Maya Rudolph, Danny McBride, Eric Andre, and more, this animated film
follows the Mitchell family, who stumble into an unprecedented robot
apocalypse and find themselves fighting to save the future of humanity.

2021 — [The Spy in Your Phone](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/spy-your-
phone/) — The positive side of smartphones is that they keep us connected,
entertain us, store data, and so much more. This documentary highlights the
dangers, including privacy issues, how messaging and social media sites store
our data and use it, how individuals and organizations can target us through
spyware, and the concern about government mass surveillance. It also discusses
what you can do to protect your data.

2021 — [Twenty Hacker](https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/806900?language=en-US)
— Hex is a hacker who runs Better World, a "white hacker" club. When he
discovers that black hackers have ruined his father's company, he enlists his
club members to take them down, resulting in an inevitable showdown.

2021 — [WANNACRY: Earth's Deadliest [Computer]
Virus](https://topdocumentaryfilms.com/wannacry-earths-deadliest-computer-
virus/) — This documentary examines how a computer virus that began as a small
crypto worm in 2017 ended up infecting thousands of computers as ransomware.
It describes the complex process that allowed it to be distributed in several
ways and delves into a parallel story.

2022 — [Glimpse](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt15196704/) — This surveillance-
footage thriller follows three individuals, who are up for the same job, as
their lives slowly spiral out of control. Starring an ensemble cast including
Michael Emerson, Raúl Esparza, and David Alan Basche.

2022 — [Hacker: Trust No One](https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/915617-hacker-
trust-no-one?language=en-US) — This drama film tells the story of a hacker who
finds himself and his girlfriend on a hit list after getting mixed up in the
shady world of cryptocurrency.

2022 — [Hot Seat](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/hot_seat) — Mel Gibson
stars in this riveting tale about an IT expert and former hacker, Friar (Kevin
Dillon), who finds himself in the middle of a potentially explosive cyber
robbery. Forced to choose between stealing digital funds or having his
daughter abducted, Friar is left to determine what matters most while
simultaneously working to get out of the hot seat.

2022 — [Keedam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keedam) — Main character Radhika
Balan is a cybersecurity expert who believes in using technology to benefit
others, but after falling victim to a cyberstalking incident and losing any
semblance of privacy, she’s left with no choice but to take matters into her
own hands.

2022 — [Kimi](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt14128670/) — Starring Zoe Kravitz
and Rita Wilson, this thriller chronicles the events that take place after an
agoraphobic tech worker discovers evidence of a violent crime, which
ultimately leads to her greatest challenge yet — leaving the house.

2022 — [Pursuit](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt15106860/) — Starring Emile
Hirsch and John Cusack, this action thriller follows Calloway, a deceptive
hacker who embarks on a dangerous journey to rescue his kidnapped wife from a
ruthless drug cartel. With stakes so high, Calloway must rely on both his wit
and digital skills to outsmart the criminals and ultimately save the love of
his life.

2022 — [Stalked Within](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/stalked_within) —
This thriller follows Gary, a home security operator, who begins to spy on a
single mother using his company’s technology equipment. It’s only a matter of
time before his obsession turns deadly.

2022 — [The Takeover](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt18082758/) — When an
ethical hacker is framed for murder, she must track down those who are
blackmailing her, stop them, and clear her name. Starring Holly Mae Brood,
Geza Weisz, and Frank Lammers.

2023 — [@](https://www.ottplay.com/news/rachel-davids-techno-thriller-will-
also-look-at-how-dark-web-is-used-to-peddle-drugs-don-max-
exclusive/63e703152f798) — A techno-thriller starring Rachel David as an
ethical hacker, this film revolves around the dark web and the horrors that
lurk within it. Audiences will become acquainted with the many crimes that
take place, such as drug peddling, and the cyberattacks that come to fruition
in the deep net.

2023 — [Fast X](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_X) — The 10th installment
in the “Fast & Furious” franchise, this film introduces an exciting new
character named Bowie, played by comedian Pete Davidson, who is a hacker that
comes into contact with the Toretto crew when they attempt to enlist his
services. As the plot unfolds, tensions rise, and Bowie's allegiance is
tested.

2023 — [M3GAN](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8760708/) — Artificially
intelligent doll M3GAN is a technological wonder, designed to befriend
children and support parents. However, it’s only a matter of time until M3GAN
becomes sentient and decides to take on a life of her own, leaving those
around her to reap the extraordinary consequences.

2023 — [Reality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reality_\(2023_film\)) — This
drama tells the story of Reality Winner, the former American intelligence
specialist who was given the longest prison sentence for the unauthorized
release of government information to the media about Russian interference in
the 2016 United States elections via an email operation. Sydney Sweeney stars
in the titular role.

* * *

* * *

Is there a movie you know about, and we should too? [Tell us what we’re
missing](https://cybersecurityventures.com/contact). We will be researching
updates for our next edition of the book.

IN THE MEDIA

"The 'Hacker's Movie Guide' is a curious and [complete encyclopedia of hacker
cinema](https://www.microsiervos.com/archivo/hackers/libro-peliculas-hackers-
enciclopedia.html)." – Alvaro Ibanez, co-author of "This Was Supposed To Be
The Future," a book covering the origin of the internet, the first computers
and hackers.

"The 'Hacker's Movie Guide' is [a love letter to Hollywood’s long-running
affair with technology](https://cybersecurityventures.com/hackers-love-letter-
to-hollywood/) — which started well before WarGames and continues to this
day." – David Braue, Award-winning technology journalist

"[Pop Culture is Cybersecurity's Best
Recruiter.](https://cybersecurityventures.com/pop-culture-is-cybersecuritys-
best-recruiter/)" – Steve Morgan, founder of Cybersecurity Ventures and
Editor-in-Chief at Cybercrime Magazine

"I like the fact that the 'Hacker's Movie Guide' offers movies that go all the
way back to 1956. This [journey through time (in
movies)](https://www.govtech.com/blogs/lohrmann-on-cybersecurity/whats-the-
best-movie-about-hackers-book-review) shows how technology has changed, and
even what people thought the future would look like 60-plus years ago." – Dan
Lohrmann, Contributing Writer at Government Technology Magazine

5 STAR AMAZON REVIEWS



"This is a great compilation of movies featuring hacking techniques, many
before the word 'cyber' was even in heavy use."



"A Northstar for movie freaks and cyber fans."



"I am in awe that such a collection of movies has been categorized and
classified and put together in this one publication. Definitely a must-have
for the cyber-minded film buff."



"A truly comprehensive list and a great forward by The Woz himself!"

"Really good summary and reminder of how the idea of hacking was shaped and
reshaped in entertainment media."

"A must-have for hacking enthusiasts looking to see how Hollywood has tried to
capture hacking in movies."

 _–  _[ _Steve Morgan_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/cybersecuritysf/) _is
founder of Cybersecurity Ventures, Editor-in-Chief at Cybercrime Magazine, and
co-author of the "Hacker's Movie Guide."_

– [ _Connor Morgan_](https://www.linkedin.com/in/connor-morgan-843a1518a/) _is
a researcher at Cybersecurity Ventures and co-author of the “Hacker’s Movie
Guide.”_

 _–  [Di Freeze](https://www.linkedin.com/in/difreeze/) is managing editor at
Cybercrime Magazine and the publishing lead and curator of the "Hacker's Movie
Guide."_

 _-  [Amanda Glassner](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amandaglassner/) is a staff
writer and reporter at Cybercrime Magazine, and curator of the "Hacker's Movie
Guide."_

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fcybersecurityventures.com%2Fmovies-about-cybersecurity-and-hacking%2F&t=The+Complete+List+of+Hacker+And+Cybersecurity+Movies "Share on Facebook")
  *   * [](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&ro=true&trk=EasySocialShareButtons&title=The+Complete+List+of+Hacker+And+Cybersecurity+Movies&url=https%3A%2F%2Fcybersecurityventures.com%2Fmovies-about-cybersecurity-and-hacking%2F "Share on LinkedIn")
  * [](mailto:?subject=Shared%20post%20from%20Cybercrime%20Magazine%20-%20Cybersecurityventures.com&body=Hi%2C%20this%20may%20be%20interesting%20you%3A%20The%20Complete%20List%20of%20Hacker%20And%20Cybersecurity%20Movies%21%20This%20is%20the%20link%3A%20https%3A%2F%2Fcybersecurityventures.com%2Fmovies-about-cybersecurity-and-hacking%2F "Share on Email")

Print page

  
  

[![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201500%20650'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![](http://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/PureCyber100-1500px.png)](https://cybersecurityventures.com/pure-
cyber-100/)

[![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201500%201875'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![](https://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/Conceal-Report-Ad.jpg)](https://conceal.io/2022-whos-
who-in-ransomware-report/)

[Tweets by
CybersecuritySF](https://twitter.com/CybersecuritySF?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

[![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201410%202250'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![](https://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/HackersBook-
download.jpg)](https://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/Hackers-Movie-Guide.pdf)

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%20616%20162'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![](https://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/04/Cybersecurity-ventures-1.png)

All rights reserved Cybersecurity Ventures © 2018

__

* * *

_(C) 2022 Cybersecurity Ventures. All rights reserved. Federal copyright law
prohibits unauthorized reproduction of this content by any means and imposes
fines up to $150,000 for violations. Reproduction in whole or in part in any
form or medium without expressed written permission of Cybersecurity Ventures
is prohibited._

[__](https://twitter.com/cybersecuritysf)[__](https://www.linkedin.com/in/cybersecuritysf/)[__](https://soundcloud.com/cybercrimemagazine)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRikWa5PGyQZw0yATk8iZWg?view_as=subscriber)[__](https://cybersecurityventures.com/feed)

All rights reserved Cybersecurity Ventures (C) 2022

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%20300%2079'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![](https://cybersecurityventures.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/footer-300x79.png)


